Series of Four Exercises
In this series of exercises on this and the upcoming pages, you will:

Create a Calm project
Use the project you created to publish a default blueprint to the Calm Marketplace.
Launch the blueprint from the marketplace, name the application and audit the deployment process.
Delete the application.
In each exercise, we will walk you through the steps to perform these tasks. There is also a video walkthrough on each of the following “Solution” pages.

Creating a Calm Project
From the Prism Central browser tab, select the Entities menu (the three-lined hamburger icon, upper left) and go to Services and click Calm. If the Welcome to Calm pop-up window appears, close it.

Hover your mouse cursor over the icons at the far left of the Calm page to see each name. Click the Projects icon.

Click the + Create Project button and use the values below to complete the General Settings section.

Project Name: Test-Project
Description: Test workload
To the right of Infrastructure, click Select Provider and select Nutanix:

The pre-selected account should be: NTNX_LOCAL_AZ
Click Select Clusters & Subnets.
In the Select Subnets dialog box, select your cluster.
Click the check box next to default-net and click Confirm.
Use the values below to set Quotas:

vCPUs: 20
Storage: 1000
Memory: 48
Click Save & Configure Environment.

A message showing Project data successfully accepted by server briefly appears. You will be switched to the Environment page. The Environment page allows you to define the components necessary to deploy a VM.

On the Environment page, the Linux configuration should already be expanded. Use the values below to configure the VM:

vCPUs: 1
Cores per vCPU: 1
Memory (GiB): 2
Click the check box next to Guest Customization. In the Script field, hover your mouse cursor over the up-arrow icon in the upper right corner to reveal Upload script. Click Upload script and navigate to C:\Scripts)). Select the cloud-init.txt file and click Open**. This will upload the script to the script field:

 #cloud-config
     users:
      - name: centos
     ssh-authorized-keys:
 - @@{superuser.public_key}@@
 sudo: ['ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL']
Scroll down and expand the DISK (1) section to see the disk configuration. Use the information below to configure the disk:

Type: Disk
Bus Type: SCSI
Operation: Clone from Image
Image: Select the CentOS8 image
Bootable: Select the check box
Scroll down to NETWORK ADAPTERS (NICS) and click the plus button to the right to add a NIC. Use the table below to configure the NIC:

NIC 1: default-net
Private IP: Select Dynamic
Scroll down to Connection. Click the Credential drop-down menu and select Add New Credential. Use the following information to configure the new credential:

Credential Name: superuser
Username: centos
Secret Type: SSH Private Key
SSH Private Key: In the upper right corner of the key field, click the box with the arrow, navigate to: C:\cygwin64\workspace.ssh\id_rsa and select Open. Ensure the inserted key text has -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY----- shown at the top. Click Done.
Note: Adding new credentials can also be done from the top of the page by clicking the + next to Credentials.

Ensure the box next to Check Log-in upon create is selected.

Scroll to the bottom of the page and click Save.

Click the Projects icon in the left column to see Test-Project in the Projects list.

Note: The HybridCloudEngineer project shown in the Projects list has the same configuration as your Test-Project.
